The world is indeed full of peril.
What tidings do you bring to the land of Lindon?
What tidings do you bring, #?
Moonlight drowns out all but the brightest stars.
To the sea, to the sea!
I long for the sea, #.
West, west away, the round sun is falling.
Our days are ending and our years failing.
Grey ship, grey ship, do you hear them calling?
Too long I have dwelt upon this Hither Shore.
Gilthoniel! O Elbereth!
Miruvor! Refreshes the body and cleanses the spirit.
It is easy to lose oneself among our folk.
Are you an Elf-friend, #?
No evil shall enter the land of Lindon.
In this land, the last fair realm, the memory of Elder Days lingers still.
The days grow cold and the years fade.
The call of the sea in my heart grows ever stronger.
Soon... soon, I shall depart these lands, #.
Rarely have we spoken with Men since the changing of the world.
You cannot call yourself a true Elf-friend until you have tasted lembas, #.
A darkness is gathering in these lands. I feel it in my flesh.
The strength of the Elves is dwindling here.
I have seen years of the sun beyond the count of mortal Men.
How long shall I linger here, #?
Gil-galad was an Elven king. Of him the harpers sadly sing. The last whose realm was fair and free, between the mountains and the sea...
Welcome to the last fair realm in all Middle-earth, #.
I feel that soon I shall depart these lands, #. To the sea, to the sea!
The time of the Grey Havens approaches. Do you hear the harbour calling, #?
May the stars of Elbereth guide you!
May the winds of Manwë show you the way!
Aiya Eärendil, elenion ancalima!
A star shines on the hour of our meeting, #.
May the wind fill your sails!
May the leaves of your life tree never turn brown, #!
Ai, #!
Don't look for trouble, # - it will come to you.
Welcome to my dwelling, #.
Novaer.
Namárië.
I amar prestar aen, han mathon ne nen, han mathon ne chae a han noston ned wilith.
The time of our kin is almost done. 
Our hearts desire to behold the land of Aman.
Soon we shall leave this world.
White gulls are calling...
The Nameless One has returned. We cannot stay in these lands for long.
That which has stood so long against the darkness will now fall.
We must depart into the West, or dwindle to a rustic folk of dell and cave, slowly to forget and to be forgotten.
That what should be shall be.
Our love for this land is deeper than the depths of the Sea.
We would rather cast all that we love away than submit to the will of the Dark Lord.
The world is changed; I can feel it in the water, I can feel it in the earth, I can smell it in the air.
Rumour grows of a shadow in the East. We fear that the Nameless One has returned.
The Sea calls us home.
The time of the Elves is over.
My people are leaving these shores.
Some things that should have not been forgotten were lost.
Long are the waves on the Last Shore falling.
A star rises out of the darkness. 
Hail, Eärendil, brightest of stars!
Can you hear the white gulls calling?
A shadow rises in the East.
Soon, all lands will be filled with despair and grief, but hope still remains.
Our time in this world is ending, but it is not yet quite over.
Greetings, traveller from afar! What news do you bring to us from the lands of Men?
Welcome to the land of Círdan the Shipwright!
These lands were once ruled by Gil-galad, High King of the Noldor. But he was lost, long ago, in the siege of the Dark Tower.
One has not truly felt pain until they have crossed the frigid ices of the Helcaraxë.