I defend the Kingdom of Dol Amroth, but the allegiance of our people also lies with Gondor.
Long have I defended these white shores.
We have spotted raiding corsair ships near our coasts... we must be on our guard.
The fallen ones of Umbar have dared to attack the shores of Gondor. They shall pay with their life!
The might and skill of the Swan Knights of Dol Amroth is unmatched.
Even now, in many of us, the blood of the Eldar flows.
We are the descendants of the Great Men of Westernesse, Númenor of old.
Our realm is ruled by the Lord and Prince of Dol Amroth, Imrahil the Fair.
O Lothlórien! I truly miss the days when your fair kin visited our white shores.
An Elven-maid there was of old...
O Amroth! O Nimrodel! For ever you are lost to us.
Our realm is under danger from the foul Corsairs of Umbar. They must not be allowed to set foot upon these shores.
What tidings do you bring from the Steward of Gondor, #?
Soon we shall go to war.
Long have we dwelt on these fair shores.
Welcome to the land of Dol Amroth.
I defend the white harbours of Dol Amroth.
Greatly do we Men of Dol Amroth miss the days when the Eldar would visit us.
We are part of a people that has been forgotten by many.
What do you seek on these hither shores, #?
Greetings, #. What do you seek in the land of the Prince?
We wait for the day when the King will return.
These are dark times... we fear that He has returned to the Black Land.
The harpers of Dol Amroth are the most skilled in all of Gondor!
It is told that the voice of Amroth can still be heard in the Sea.
What tidings do you bring from the White City?
Do you bring news or troubles with you, #?
What do you seek before these white shores, #?
The old tales speak well; there is Elvish blood in the veins of our folk, for the people of Nimrodel dwelt in this land once long ago.
Long ago, this land was inhabited by the fair folk of Lórien. But they have departed into the West many ages ago.
The fallen folk of Umbar must not be allowed to pillage the people of Gondor!
Strangers are not often seen in these lands. Especially in these times.
My people are amongst the few folk in these lands who still speak the tongues of the Eldar.