#title:A Ranger's Guide, Volume II
#author:Eradan Palantir
#types:eriador,lindon,rivendell,eregion
#reward
#
A Ranger's Guide, Volume II: Weapons of War - Fighting up Close

Welcome to the second volume of A Ranger's Guide. If you are reading this, you have continued your training beyond the basics of the first volume.

This book shall introduce you to the next weapons you must learn about. These are the kinds of weapons that should only be used when you are far too close to your enemies. Such weapons are often our last resort. Therefore, you must be flawless in your mastery of them.

These are the swords, axes, polearms, and blunt weapons. For simplicity, they will collectively be named 'melee weapons', for they will only be used in a melee, which is to say, close hand-to-hand combat.

The first weapon that must be covered is, of course, the sword. You will likely use a sword, for most of the rest of your Dúnedain brethren also wield the sword, and there are thus plenty of masters to learn from. There are many types of sword, but only a few are common in this age.

First, you must understand your own options. You will likely have ready access to swords of Gondorian fashion, or Orcish origin. You should not readily use an Orc's sword, for they, like their users, are filled with evil and evil deeds. A Gondorian sword, however, is a true weapon: strong and reliable, with a keen blade. Be careful, however. Your weapon cannot be repeatedly used to hack through Orcish helms without suffering some damage, and you do not want to find yourself trapped in a skirmish with a broken sword!

If you are very lucky, though, you may find yourself with access to a Dwarvish or Elvish sword. These swords are sharper than any we have ever wrought, as the smithcraft of the Eldar and the Naugrim far surpasses our own skill. Should you come to bear such a sword, treat it as though it were a blessing from the Valar themselves!

The swords of our enemies are often similar to ours, though the Orcs are known to fashion their blades with a wicked curve. But if by some great misfortune you find yourself facing a great Uruk, you must fight for your life, for they are fiercely strong with brutal swords to match.

When faced with a sword-wielding enemy, keep your own sword up. If you have a shield, you have an advantage. Most Orcs fight in an unrefined slashing style, and depend on their own brute strength to snatch the victory. You, however, cannot afford to waste your strength doing the same. Instead, deflect the enemy's sword whenever possible. Turn the Orc's strikes to the ground or the air, away from your own skin. When he tires, lunge - do not slash, lunge - straight for the chest. A good thrust can finish off your enemy in one blow, but be wary: the largest Orcs are far tougher than most.

If you must stop a sword with your own sword, rather than deflect it - for the sake of the Valar, do not ever block the sword edge-on-edge! There is no easier way to ruin your blade's edge than by smashing it into someone else's! And remember: mastery is the key. You must practise, practise until you physically cannot lift the sword again, and then lift it anyway. You are a Ranger. Your body is a secondary concern. Pain is unimportant. Weariness is every day of your life. You will succeed where even Orcs fail because you can keep going: because you will not, cannot, stop for sake of exhaustion.

Though you will likely never wield them, there are other weapons you might face. The most common is the dagger, a short knife smaller than the full sword. A dagger is fast to swing, but cannot bite as deep as a heavier, longer sword. Stay out of the reach of a dagger-carrying foe. Use your sword's longer reach to keep them at bay. If you are the one wielding a dagger, however, and you have no other choice, the most important thing is to be fast, unpredictable, and get in close - very close.

Axes, especially the double-headed battleaxes, are dangerous in the right hands. They are made to deal damage through a combination of blunt force and a sharp edge. If you can avoid an axe stroke by any means, do so. Otherwise, you can deflect it with a shield. When using an axe, bear in mind that it is really no more than a brutal hacking weapon. Hit your enemies over and over again, never yielding, and they will soon fall to the ground. We do try to leave such savagery to the Orcs, but a strong axe is better than nothing - so if you must use one, you had better be good at quick strikes to the neck or head.

Polearms are another common sight. There are many kinds, but most can be counted among either the long-reaching piercing spear-type weapons, or the chopping halberds and other nasty Orcish constructions.

Spears are favourites of the Elves and of the Rohirrim: a spear affords a further reach, keeping the wielder out of range of their enemy. You might use a spear from horseback, but besides that they will be of little use; a spearman must have other spearmen to keep other enemies away and as a Ranger you will fight alone more often than not. You can also throw a spear to strike your foes from afar, although I do not advise that unless you have another trusty weapon to rely on.

Worthy of mention here are pikes, which are even longer than spears and more unwieldy. However, more so than any other weapon, a skilfully-held pike proves excellent for keeping a charging foe at bay.

Halberds are axes on long poles with spearheads at the end. Stay away from a halberdier, especially if you are on horseback. The halberd can put a quick stop to your horse's charge, pull you off its back, and then chop you to pieces after the fall.

Lances are exclusively used from horseback, and thus rarely appear in the hands of Orcs. A lance is somewhat like a longer and stronger spear, for they are meant to survive after striking a fully armoured enemy at full gallop. You might wield one should you ever ride with the Rohirrim, but we Dúnedain do not use them often, for mounted combat is dangerous when alone. But the best way to fight with a lance is to charge at your enemy and drive the strike home - then quickly retreat, using your horse's speed to your advantage.

Warhammers and maces are rather similar, though rare in these parts of the world. Such weapons are heavy and hard-hitting, and it takes a mighty Man or Orc to wield one well. To fight with a hammer, aim first for your foe's side, then for the head. Hitting an enemy in the head is a sure way to stun them, while a hit to the side will leave them breathless - an easy target. If you should come up against an enemy wielding a hammer, be aware that your armour is almost useless against it. The force from a hammer-strike will pass right through even the toughest mail and rattle you to the heart of your bones.

Thus concludes my guide. There are some kinds of weapons which I have not covered, but as I have little experience with tridents and battlestaves, you will have to ask a soldier of the Pelargir or an Elf of Imladris for information on those. This book, however, is all that you will need to master the use of the common weapons.

Hone your skills. Study this book, and practise with all the weapons detailed herein. You will fight most often with your one trusted weapon, but you are expected to have at least a familiarity with all other kinds of blade. There may come a day when your life depends upon it.