#title:A Ranger's Guide, Volume I
#author:Eradan Palantir
#types:eriador,lindon,rivendell,eregion
#reward
#
A Ranger's Guide, Volume I: Weapons of War - Staying at a Distance

This guide will, I hope, save your life. Whoever you are, whatever ages of the world may have ended or begun since the writing of this book, I hope it will guide you, aid you, protect you.

You, like me, are a Man of the West, a Dúnadan, a descendant of the ancient Kings of Númenor, and from Númenor to Arnor. We protect the North, for the peaceful peoples that live here are unprepared for the violence of the Enemy, and we strive to secure their safety, small though it is, for every bastion of good, every denial of evil, renders Sauron a little less powerful.

As a Ranger, you have made a choice. You will protect our people, whatever sacrifices are required. You will protect other peoples as well. This guide will help you do that.

This particular book will cover the means by which you may kill, or be killed, from a distance, as that is the first thing you must learn to protect yourself against. As a lone Man in the wilderness, getting involved in a sword fight with Orcs is a sure way to let your pursuers catch you, so we make much use of the bow and the spear, and face retaliation in kind.

The first, and most essential, weapon of ranged warfare is the bow. But there is not just one type of bow. There are many bows you will come across in your travels. The first, and most important, however, is your own bow.

The bows we use as Rangers are reliable wooden bows, with good strength and swift drawing. However, our bows will shoot further than an ordinary bow. Stay away from your enemies, and kill them from a distance. Many songs have been sung of honourable and valiant deaths in battle - but you cannot defend the free peoples by getting yourself killed in a swordfight, no matter how valiant you may be.

Orcish bows often hit harder than ours, though they cannot shoot as far - so keep your distance.

Should you ever see an enemy who, by some theft or fell treachery, has come to wield an Elvish bow, run the other way. You will never outshoot them! Elvish bows shoot faster, hit harder, and fly further than almost any bow Men have ever created. If you cannot recognise the weapon, it is best to exercise caution.

Bows are not, however, the only weapons you will encounter. If you see an enemy with a sling, that is most likely not an enemy; it is probably a Hobbit. You will likely not see the poison-dart blowgun, save if you should ever find yourself in the land of Gondor during an attack by the Southrons. It has also been written that the Woses, the wild Men of the Pukel-land, were known to use poisoned darts - but few of those folk have been sighted for a long age.

Crossbows are slow to load, but hit heavier than the heaviest-hitting of bows. Attack while the enemy reloads, but avoid getting hit if you can. Orcish crossbows are famous for their ability to pierce even the steadfast armour of the Dwarves - so beware! And above all, if you are shot with any small darts or Orcish bolts, be sure to check the dart after removing it. It may have been poisoned.

Finally, we come to thrown weapons. You will not use any of these save in direst need. Rangers travel light, and you cannot be throwing your weapons away unless it is necessary.

Chief among thrown weapons are the spears and the throwing axes. Throwing axes hit hard but can only fly a short distance. They are wielded by the Dwarves, but also by the wild Men of the Lone-lands and the North. Many Orcs use spears, however. Spears are often inaccurate, do not fly far compared to an arrow, and take time to throw, but all the same you would do well to avoid being hit by one. You may also see a spear held in hand and used to stab at close range.

Practise your skills, Ranger. And obey your Chieftains, for they are wise, and will help you to become wise as well.