Welcome to Gondor.
Welcome to Gondor, #.
We are truth-speakers, we Men of Gondor.
I long to see a King on the throne of Gondor again.
These are dark times. A great power is rising in the east.
I am a soldier of Gondor.
I hope to see the glory of Gondor restored someday.
Gondor is not as great as it once was.
It is a shame you could not have come to Gondor in happier days, #.
Welcome, #. What business brings you to Gondor?
Good day, #! Welcome to the land of Gondor.
I have heard stories that the Kings may one day return and rule Gondor once more. But those are just folk-tales; they cannot be true...
Greetings, #. What news do you bring to Gondor from afar?
An evil is rising once more behind the walls of Mordor. I fear it shall be our doom.
My kin protect these lands. If not for the brave Men of Gondor, the world would have succumbed to the Shadow a long time ago.
The heroes of Gondor shall rise to protect us, #.
Gondor was once one of the greatest realms of Men. Yet today it is merely a land of crumbling brick, and false hearts...
I have trained all my life to kill Orcs. But may the Valar save me if a Troll comes knocking!
You may have travelled far to see Gondor, #. Yet I think you have found it in dark days.
If the Enemy should send all his might against us, #... well, I doubt we would see another dawn!
I pity the rangers in Ithilien, #. They will be the first to fall.
I very much doubt our aged defences can withstand the might of Mordor. Yet still, I shall fight to my last, for the freedom of Men.
You come on a fine day, #. The Orcs have not raided our lands in more than a week.
There have been foul airs on the wind of late. We fear something is gathering behind the mountains of ash.
We live in fear here, #. If you seek safety, I would advise you to travel to the lands of the Prince.
It would take thousands of Orcs to bring down even a dozen good Gondorians.
If anything foul should befall Gondor, then the Rohirrim would ride to our aid. I am sure of it.
Do not think Gondor weak, #. In heart and spirit, the Men of Gondor shall always remain strong.
I have seen with my eyes the ruin of Osgiliath, where once was our capital city. But for five hundred years, that city has been host to naught but silent grief, a reminder of Gondor's darkening decline.
Have you seen the Argonath, #? It is a sight to behold!
The vales of the Anduin are beautiful lands, almost rivalling the beauty of Gondor itself.
Gondor has never since regained the glory it had during the days of the line of Anárion.
Beware the slimy Orc, but fear more the Wainrider on his chariot. Though that race we have neither faced in battle nor heard tidings of for many generations.
The White Tree is long since failed, yet our hearts still beat true.
It is said that the peaks of the White Mountains may be seen from anywhere one may stand in Gondor.
I long to see the Swan Knights of Dor-en-Ernil ride into battle.
Stay far from the pines of Tawar-in-Drúedain, #. Strange Men live there who worship stone and leaf.
If the beacons of the White Tower should be lit, then we will know at last that our doom has come.
The old tomb-mound of Elendil is named Halifirien in the tongue of Rohan. But his casket was sent to the Silent Street of the Stone City, five hundred years ago.